Of course, I didn't know him at that time, but
there's so many people here you mention.
Tiger Teague, we were in the hospital together at
Temple, McCloskey General Hospital, and I always
liked him very much. He was, Tiger was in a
wheelchair at that time, and I was in bed and then in
a wheelchair,
He was already politicking, working hard at it.
And we kept up a relationship, and he used to come to
Laredo once in a while on a junket. There would be a,
it was a paper company, I've forgotten what the
name of it was, but had bought a ranch right outside
of Laredo and used it for hunting mostly and mainly
entertaining. And the fellow that ran the, ran
their lobbying process was a fellow named Ollie
Crawford. Ollie was also a pilot and they had a big
plane and he'd bring, Well one night he had the
power of the United States House there in my place.
He had Tiger and Carl Albert and I can't think of
many of them, but a bunch of them in there one night.
told him i said damn tiger i said i hope nobody bombs
this place with all this but he was a nice fella he
was a nice and tiger's nickname came from his uh
unwillingness to give up wasn't he a a tireless
person? Oh, yes, he would. But I can't say where the
nickname came from. To me, it was Tiger D. Yeah,
because I think it was because he was always like a
little tiger, always going after it giving a
second effort. He didn't he wouldn't take no for an
answer. All right, back in those months before you
left, what did you when you were going to have a good
time? What did you and your buddies do? as Aggie
students? Well, I had a very good friend named Phil
Beckley. Phil was in my outfit. He was a year ahead
of me. And another fellow named Ray Youngblood
was in the outfit.
We had a lot of fun just going down to Hard Liquors
and having a little beer and singing a lot. At Hard
Liquors in that era, was there any check on who was
18 or 21? Was there any age? I never had anybody ask
me and God only knows if you'd see some pictures of
me at that age, you'd think I was 14. I never had
anybody ask me anything. Did he put up with anybody
that got bothersome if they drank too much? I never
saw anybody out of line that ordered liquors. I'm
not saying somebody didn't get a little
boisterous or something like that, but as far as
really causing any trouble, I never saw it. And
normally you all walked down there? Oh, yes.
Normally we walked everywhere. And it would seat
about how many?
i don't know but it sure wasn't very big two dozen oh
yeah something like that i guess and uh what other
what else was available other than things to drink
well could you get a hamburger or a hot dog you could
uh yeah you'd get a hamburger and uh once in a while
they play a little dominoes something like that no
dancing no not to mine i don't ever don't remember
see it any the only dancing we had right Round there
was, we had dances once in a while down at the,
they built this place down near the end of the drill
field. They called it the Grove or something like
that. Outdoors. Yeah. And dances there, but our
big dances were always at Sabeasa. Describe those
big dances. Well, they were great really.
The girls would come in, and a few people had dates.
They'd usually, from TSAW,
the girls would usually be a couple of busloads,
them come down, and then girls would descend from
everywhere, it seemed like, and we'd usually,
since there wasn't, oh, there was a couple of
hotels in Bryan,
I've forgotten the names of them. LaSalle.
LaSalle and then right across the street the
Kentuckian or something like that. And that was
it. And then a lot of the local people would rent a
room out to a girl or what we'd always do is take one
dormitory usually and vacate it. the girls would
take over the dormitory. Of course, everybody
left them notes. But anyway, the dances would be,
they'd really be great, because we'd have good
bands and have good music. Now, speaking of the
Aggieland, I remember one time we had a band down
there, I don't remember what it was, but it was
supposed to have been a pretty good band, and there
was going to be such a crowd, that they had them
playing in the main area and the Aggieland played
over in another area of the deal. Of Sabeasa? And
let me tell you something. Before long, they
should have moved them around because everybody
was over dancing to the Aggieland instead of the
big band. No, they had a great orchestra. And how
did Aggies behave at those dances? Very well.
You
know, I've always, people talk about a bunch of
rough boys and everything like that. As
long as the occasions called for it, Aggies were
always perfect gentlemen. They really were. And I
understand the girls loved coming to an Aggie
dance, that they were treated like queens. Oh,
yeah, because, my God, you know, Well, it was only
normal. You'd take guys that hadn't been around a
girl in a month or two, and then for the girls to be
outnumbered at least two and a half to one or three
to one, that was quite a thing, too. I've heard, did
y'all refer to the Bryan 200? I've heard some
people refer to a select group of Bryan girls. Yes.
There was a few of them. It was,
as I remember, there was only about, there hadn't
been more, but there was only about four or five
gals that I remember that were from Bryan, and I
couldn't call their names offhand. If I could, I
wouldn't. But they
used to, used to come out there quite a bit. Johnny
Lawrence was from Bryan. Johnny was two or three
classes ahead of me, and I'm trying to think who
else was from Bryan there. Johnny's the only one I
remember offhand, one of the boys. And as we're
talking about the students then, summarize
generally the basic attitudes of Aggies at the
time of the beginning of World War I. Not the war,
but where did Aggie students come from? Were they
liberal, conservative? What were their values?
Well, when I went to A&M, I was I was thinking that
I'm going to run into
basically agricultural people.
Well, it wasn't to this point that there were a lot
of them, but there was a lot of boys that were as we'd
have called city boys there, too. A lot of Dallas
people, a lot of Houston people, and a lot of West
Texas people.
I would say not
about 95% conservative or more, if that's
possible. There were a few very liberal people,
but not a lot. I mean, it was a, the
majority of the students
Well, the majority of the people in the state of
Texas at that time had come from families that had
been hard-pressed.
I don't mean they'd been starving, but they'd been
hard-pressed to make ends meet and maintain the
home values that they wanted and so on and so forth.
You just had an overall attitude like that there. I
have to lay it on the line and tell you that I,
as far as a
education
book-wise, I didn't get what I went to A&M to get in
that respect. Not because of the school, but
because of me. But I'm going to tell you that I got
something at A&M which was an abiding friendship
with some of the greatest people.
How did that develop? Why did it develop? I don't
know. I guess it's just there was a certain
cohesiveness there, and different people, we
just gravitated to each other. And
like Ned Bruin, for instance. Ned is a close friend
of mine. Ned died last year. Dickie
was one of Mr. Heap's boys, Herman Heap. And Minnie
Bell, she was a nice lady. Let's see, was Fort
Albright and John Lindsay, were they in your? Oh, I
knew John well. Ford was another year ahead, and I
didn't really, I knew Ford, but you know who,
people didn't know a freshman much if you're
junior. But I knew John Lindsey quite well. I
remember when, after the war, I got to know, we, all
of these people, mostly we met at A&M. And we
established a basis, but we became closer friends
after the war. But that was the bond that kept us all
together. How does that bond get initiated?
Who was it made the statement? I thought I was going
to remember that when I heard it. It says,
I can't explain the Aggie spirit.
And
if it has to be explained to you, you don't know what
it is. I mean, it's just, I don't know what it is. But
this was even more than that. I say more than that.
What's more than that?
I just developed some ties with people that were as
strong or stronger than blood ties. And I
wouldn't, you know, we're not getting any
younger, but I wouldn't take anything for those
those ties that developed and were nurtured over
the years and so on and so forth. In 1941 and two and
three, in that period, in the student body, were
there some Protestants and some Catholics and
some Jewish?
There were all kinds.
I'd be guilty if I said I never heard anybody make a
slighting remark. Sure I did. But generally,
there was not a,
there was no put down because you happened to be a
Catholic or a Protestant or a Jew or whatever. And
were there Hispanic youngsters,
Mexican-American? We had some there. It was very,
very small, very small. However, that was
probably the largest ethnic group other than
Anglo was Hispanic. But even at that time, it was
quite large. Of course, there were no blacks at
that time. And were you all conscious of each
other's family wealth? No, that was one of the
great things about A&M. That uniform was a great
equalizer.
No one, you got to liking a fella because of what he
was, not because of what he had or what, for the most
part you didn't know what he had.
sure couldn't tell by their clothes because they
were all wearing the same thing. What were the most
respected student organizations? Band, Ross
Volunteers, what? Ross Volunteers was always
respected.
The band,
but I would
I think the individual outfits, everybody had a
certain binding to their individual outfits and
not only that to their, if it wasn't to their
battery, it was to say the field artillery, the
coast artillery or something like that. Was there
any outfit that everybody on the campus agreed was
the best or the worst?
It had to be a good outfit with E Battery Field, and
the reason I say that, they would tell everybody
that. And they were a good outfit. It was a San
Antonio outfit. Dang near everybody in it was from
San Antonio. They kept it that way, and they had a
good outfit. Wasn't as good as eye battery, but you
know. There you go.
Let's see. The most prestigious student office
was what? The individual student.
At the time I was there, I'd say cadet colonel.
That's what I assumed. And there was a senior class
president. Yes, yes, there were every class had
their. However, as
I remember,
we gave not much
credence to
freshman class president, sophomore class
president, so on and so forth. And when it got on
down to senior class president, that's something
else. The editor of the battalion was, you know,
something. Different things like that. I would
say the
president of the senior class was a very High
honor. Head yell leader? Head yell leader. But
not, head yell leader wouldn't look, well, yes,
but that's not as much as it is today, I don't think.
Were you and your buddies aware of any secret
fraternities in those days? Yes, sir. I'm not
going to say anything else about that. Okay, all
right. Most of the people that I have asked about it
indicate that they weren't aware then and aren't
aware now. And sometimes they smile and sometimes
they don't. Because I have the impression that at
least one of those organizations goes back maybe
100 years. But I don't know. I'm not. No, I hear you.
I hear you. Let's see.
The routine of your courses changed in the summer
of 42 when you all go to a trimester. Right. And so
you just stayed there and started taking
sophomore courses. That's correct. And the core
activities continued through that summer.
Correct. Did everything become more serious?
Yes, sir. It did. Because everybody...
I don't want this to sound like nobody wanted to go
to service, but everybody was as practical as you
could be about something like that. They wanted to
get as much of the schooling behind them as they
could. And
it was easier to do it as much as you could then. If
you didn't keep the grades, you were going out
immediately, which we had happened to a lot of
friends. Now, as it turned out, I tore a bunch of
those guys that went out and then came back and
became great successes. Well, he had told me about
how his grades were awful, but the service made him
serious and changed him forever. Did you stay with
your pre-med major? Yes, sir, while I was in
school. However, I have to give you this however,
my main deal by this time was just to stay in school.
See, for me, the Korean War is exactly the same. To
put it off, if I could, and at least graduate.
All right, then, when do you leave permanently for
the active duty?
Let's see.
I'm trying to think when we went out in 43,
I guess it was. In 43, early 43, they sent us, that's
when they sent us to Fort Sill for a basic training
And we go through a 21-week basic training, and
then they sent us back to College Station. Now,
we went to Sill. Some boys went to Camp Roberts,
California. Some to Mineral Wells, to Camp
Walters.
I don't know where else they were. sent possibly
one other place. And then we all came back to
school, supposedly for a very short time, but we
didn't know. And we finished
one semester of our junior year. and started the
second one and that's when they pulled us out and
through which when my group went back to Fort Sill
and then to Fort Benning. Describe how y'all
learned you were leaving. How much lead time did
they give you? What did you take? As I remember it,
not very much.
If you want to count the rumors and how many times we
didn't leave, there's a lot of that. But
when it came down to actual leaving, very little
lead time. And what did you take with you?
What you could put in an A bag and a B bag. And what did
you leave here or leave at College Station? I
didn't leave much because I didn't have anything
there. By this time, it had already become a
foregone
conclusion that we were going. It was just a
question of when. So no car? No, I had no car by then,
you know. In fact, When I was, when I was there at
school, we had two parking lots on the campus. They
were both, you know, just open air like, one over by
what's now the Triple A building over there. There
was one back there that maybe, maybe
you could put 35 cars in it, and then one over behind
the dorm, 11, which is the band dorm up in that area,
one up there that would have probably held,
probably held 100 cars if there would have been
enough to fill it, but neither one of them were
full. And that's all the cars on campus, student
cars on campus. Do you recall your
feelings or the others' feelings as y'all got on
the train to leave? Well,
I think there was a lot
of put on for show.
I can only really speak for myself, but I think I'm
speaking for a lot of people, we were very
concerned about what's going to happen. Where are
we going to go? What's going to happen to us? And so
on and so forth. But nobody's going to come out and
say these kind of things. You know, that wouldn't,
that wouldn't be the manly thing to do. And we're
all talking about how we're going to do this and do
that. But Yes, there's a lot of apprehension on
everybody's part. How did, when you all were at
these brief stops at Fort Sill and so forth, how did
Aggies compare in their training performance
with students from the other colleges?
This is going to sound very braggadocious, but
it's the truth. It's the truth. There was no one had
to No one had that kind of training, none. We, at
Fort Sill, we had non-coms up there that were
practically all inferior in training to what all
of our group was. Did the commissioned officers
give you all praise and credit?
Well, let's say this, they, they, they knew what
was going on, but we made, we could make them look
good, or we could make them look awful bad. And I
think, to tell you the truth, I think the junior
grade officers were a little intimidated by the NM
boys. All right, and in class were you yet a senior?
No, no, we never, none of our group ever got to be
seniors. Okay, all right. We were just barely
juniors. So, all right, so you hadn't been through
final review except as a freshman or sophomore? We
never,
let's see. We went through a final review of sorts
when we were freshmen because it wasn't a real deal
even then because the seniors our freshman year
were taken out of school a little bit early. Now
let's see, but you had been to Silver Taps. Yes, and
that... Describe Silver Taps. The most
impressive ceremony that Texas A&M has. I
can't tell you the depth of feeling I have for
Silver Taps. The first time that I was ever there, I
just was... It was one of the most moving
experiences I've ever had.
We all walked to the
academic building, in front of the academic
building. No sound,
no cigarettes, no nothing. Everybody's just
standing there. And then you start hearing the
bugles.